11111111

fs.symlink(target, path[, type], callback)#
Asynchronous symlink(2). No arguments other than a possible exception are given to the completion callback. The type argument can be set to 'dir', 'file', or 'junction' (default is 'file') and is only available on Windows (ignored on other platforms). Note that Windows junction points require the destination path to be absolute. When using 'junction', the target argument will automatically be normalized to absolute path.

Here is an example below:

fs.symlink('./foo', './new-port');
It creates a symbolic link named "new-port" that points to "foo".

fs.symlinkSync(target, path[, type])#
Synchronous symlink(2). Returns undefined.

fs.truncate(path, len, callback)#
Asynchronous truncate(2). No arguments other than a possible exception are given to the completion callback. A file descriptor can also be passed as the first argument. In this case, fs.ftruncate() is called.

fs.truncateSync(path, len)#
Synchronous truncate(2). Returns undefined.

fs.unlink(path, callback)#
Asynchronous unlink(2). No arguments other than a possible exception are given to the completion callback.

fs.unlinkSync(path)#
Synchronous unlink(2). Returns undefined.

fs.unwatchFile(filename[, listener])#
Stop watching for changes on filename. If listener is specified, only that particular listener is removed. Otherwise, all listeners are removed and you have effectively stopped watching filename.

Calling fs.unwatchFile() with a filename that is not being watched is a no-op, not an error.

Note: fs.watch() is more efficient than fs.watchFile() and fs.unwatchFile(). fs.watch() should be used instead of fs.watchFile() and fs.unwatchFile() when possible.

fs.utimes(path, atime, mtime, callback)#
Change file timestamps of the file referenced by the supplied path.

Note: the arguments atime and mtime of the following related functions does follow the below rules:

If the value is a numberable string like '123456789', the value would get converted to corresponding number.
If the value is NaN or Infinity, the value would get converted to Date.now().
fs.utimesSync(path, atime, mtime)#
Synchronous version of fs.utimes(). Returns undefined.

fs.watch(filename[, options][, listener])#
Watch for changes on filename, where filename is either a file or a directory. The returned object is a fs.FSWatcher.

The second argument is optional. The options if provided should be an object. The supported boolean members are persistent and recursive. persistent indicates whether the process should continue to run as long as files are being watched. recursive indicates whether all subdirectories should be watched, or only the current directory. This applies when a directory is specified, and only on supported platforms (See Caveats).

The default is { persistent: true, recursive: false }.

The listener callback gets two arguments (event, filename). event is either 'rename' or 'change', and filename is the name of the file which triggered the event.

Caveats#

The fs.watch API is not 100% consistent across platforms, and is unavailable in some situations.

The recursive option is only supported on OS X and Windows.

Availability#

This feature depends on the underlying operating system providing a way to be notified of filesystem changes.

On Linux systems, this uses inotify.
On BSD systems, this uses kqueue.
On OS X, this uses kqueue for files and 'FSEvents' for directories.
On SunOS systems (including Solaris and SmartOS), this uses event ports.
On Windows systems, this feature depends on ReadDirectoryChangesW.
If the underlying functionality is not available for some reason, then fs.watch will not be able to function. For example, watching files or directories on network file systems (NFS, SMB, etc.) often doesn't work reliably or at all.

You can still use fs.watchFile, which uses stat polling, but it is slower and less reliable.

Filename Argument#

Providing filename argument in the callback is only supported on Linux and Windows. Even on supported platforms, filename is not always guaranteed to be provided. Therefore, don't assume that filename argument is always provided in the callback, and have some fallback logic if it is null.

fs.watch('somedir', (event, filename) => {
  console.log(`event is: ${event}`);
  if (filename) {
    console.log(`filename provided: ${filename}`);
  } else {
    console.log('filename not provided');
  }
});
fs.watchFile(filename[, options], listener)#
Watch for changes on filename. The callback listener will be called each time the file is accessed.

The options argument may be omitted. If provided, it should be an object. The options object may contain a boolean named persistent that indicates whether the process should continue to run as long as files are being watched. The options object may specify an interval property indicating how often the target should be polled in mil
